---
layout:          post
title:           "021 - Exactly How I Want It To Be"
date:            2024-12-15 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      [episode]
trailer:         false
tags:            [Episodes]
podcasts:        [RedVal]
voiced:          [Warren Godby, Degracious Melé, Jade Turner, Gord, Malcolm Landry, Hester Hiyashi, Aubrey Wood, Clive Schill, Pamela Jennings]
episode_title:   "Exactly How I Want It To Be"
episode_number:  '021'
summary:         "'F*** Legacy.'"
content_flags:   [explicit language, depiction of symptoms of dementia, discussion of assisted dying, depiction of assisted dying by infusion of medicine]
PodBean_url:     https://www.podbean.com/media/share/dir-im5bv-22c6cf45
formats: 
  PDF: https://www.redvalleypod.com/uploads/1/3/0/2/130220429/s04e02_-_transcript.pdf
  PDF (Large-Print): 
official:        true
wiki_url:        https://red-valley.fandom.com/wiki/%22Exactly_How_I_Want_It_To_Be%22
---
##### [THE PARTY, IN THE MESS ROOM. A BEAUTIFUL ACAPELLA RENDITION OF MORIOR INVICTUS. THE HUSHED VOICES OF WARREN AND GRACE AT THE BACK.]

#### WARREN

I hope you're paying Gordon residuals for all of this. 

#### GRACE

I think he'd be very moved to learn how his music has affected people so many years later. Are you going to carry that tortoise everywhere?

#### WARREN

Yes, Grace, yes I am. So, no one requests 'Stairway to Heaven' or 'My Way'?

#### GRACE

We don't have a lot of music here that we don't make ourselves. 

#### WARREN 

Why not?

#### GRACE

Rights reasons. 

#### WARREN

Rights reasons?

#### GRACE

All copyright media went behind enormous paywalls years ago. And then the Bastion banned it all anyway. 

#### WARREN

What's the Bastion?

#### GRACE

They are in charge. A fanatical religious militia. 

#### WARREN

Well, the Bastion sounds fun. Who let that happen?

#### GRACE

In desperate times, people turn to desperate measures. 

#### WARREN 

Like a euthanasia clinic in the Highlands.

#### GRACE

You think we are a crazy death cult, don't you?

#### WARREN

I wouldn't say that. 

##### [THE RECITAL HAS ENDED. A VOICE IN THE CONGREGATION SHOUTS:]

#### VOICE

MORIOR INNVICTUS!

##### CONGREAGATION

DEATH BEFORE DEFEAT!

#### GRACE

I suppose I can understand where you might get that idea. 

#### WARREN

You said it, not me. 

###### [JADE TURNER HAS STOOD TO ADDRESS THE CROWD. A FEW WHISTLES, CALLS OF 'SPEECH!' AND 'GO ON JADE!' THE CROWD IS EBULLIENT. 

#### JADE

Thank you, thank you. I won't keep you all long. I just wanted to say... well, thank you. To all of you. I came here six weeks ago, so afraid, so angry. So alone. I didn't belive I'd find anything. I'd have to haul myself to the top of Ballbag and jump off. I know for some visitors that has been suggested as a form of Completion and to those I say good luck, but do you really want to spend your last hours on Earth being shat on a hundred times by pink-footed geese?

##### [LAUGHTER]

#### JADE

Red Valley has been a fortress for me at the end of my life. On my good days, you've been a source of joy. On the bad days you've kept me in one piece. I'm afraid I... I don't have much for you in the way of wisdom. Aubrey - where are you? - Aubrey. 

#### COMMUNITY

She's over there. 

#### JADE 

You try and hide on days like this, don't you? You and I talked about legacy not long ago. You told me legacy is nothing mre than asking others to worship at the altar of your own ego. No graves, no monuments. We return to dust and you put that dust to use. It's a strange idea, legacy. Particularly in these times. I feel, uh...

#### JADE

I feel like... for the first thirty years of my life, everyone told me to stop worrying what other people thought of me. Could never quite do that of course. Then... I don't know. Something must have sunk in, because for the next thirty years of my life, I really didn't give two shits what anyone thought. I had too much to do, apparently. Then I got old. Then I got this disease. That makes me forget where I am. That makes me call one of you by the name of my son, then become furious when you kindly correct me. That makes me forget the suit my husband wore on our wedding day. This rotten illness takes the ground out from under your feet. And I said to people, I said, what's the point of all this, if I end up losing it all, if I'm Jade Turner in nothing more than name? They would commiserate with me at first. Then they’d say: But you live on, Jade. You live on in all those you leave behind, in the changes you made to their lives. Oh shit, I thought. Maybe it really does matter what people think of you.

##### [A RIPPLE OF LAUGHTER.]

#### JADE

No. No, I think I got it right. Aubrey, even if your ashes join mine gritting the path up to this station, with all that you've done, you might not be able to escape your legacy. This place will live on long after me and, I hope, long after you. Thise who will follow will know your name. And the world is a smidgen brighter for it. But for me... fuck it. Fuck legacy!

##### [THE CROWD WHOOPS AND CALLS IT BACK TO HER, A SMATTERING OF APPLAUSE. JADE CARRIES ON WITH THANK YOUS FOR A LITTLE WHILE UNDERNEATH WARREN AND GRACE'S CONVERSATION.]

#### JADE

I could write a thank you list that would touch the floor but I'll find each and every one of you over the course of the evening. But I do just want to thank the beautiful musicians and singers here who make these Completion days feel so special. Right, I won't take up the stage any longer. 

#### GRACE

Ah, that Jade!

#### WARREN

What did she mean about her ashes gritting the path. 

#### GRACE

Exactly that. Everyone who completes is cremated. Their ashes are used to grit the path. You know how slippery it can get. 

#### WARREN

How pratical. 

#### GRACE

There's a certain poetry to it as well, I think. 

##### [JADE IS FINISHING UP.]

#### Well then. I wish you all an extremely fond farewell. My husband is waiting for me, and I'm keen to get back to him. So, without further ado, Morior Invictus, which I'm fairly certain translates to... LET'S GET FUCKED UP!

##### [ THE CROWD GOES WILD. MUSIC BLARES. STREAMERS ARE POPPED.]

------

